Previously, you clean then
tokenize the corpus and
you now have this clean corpus as
an array of words or tokens.
Now, I will show you how to
extract center words and
their context words,
which will serve as
examples to train
the continuous bag
of words model.
Here's the code to
do this in Python.
The get_windows function
takes two arguments: words,
which is an array
of words or tokens,
but I'll stick with
the term words here.
The context have size
stored in the variable C,
which is the number
of words to be
taken on each side
of the center word.
This was true in
the previous video.
For a total window size of five.
The function initializes
a counter with
the index of the first word
that has enough words before it.
So in the working example,
I'm happy because I'm learning,
the tokenized array would
be I'm happy because
I'm learning,
where I has the index 0
and index 1, and so on.
For a context have size of two,
or the context words are
the two words before and
after the center word.
The first center word that
can be used is happy.
Its index is two,
which is the size of the context.
I then start a loop
in this index,
which will run until it
reaches the last
possible center word,
which is the last word that
has two words after it,
stopping just before it
reaches the index
corresponding to
the number of words in the array
minus the size of the context.
In each iteration of the loop,
I extract the center word,
which is the word that
the current index.
Next, I create an
array with the C words
before the center word
and the C words after it.
I can now return the context
word and center words.
I'm using a special way of
returning value in Python.
As you can see, I'm using
the yield keyword
instead of return,
without going into
too much detail
where return word immediately
exit the function,
yield returns the
values and simply
pauses the main
get_window function,
and the function known as
a generator function
to the use of
yield will then continue
running if more
values are needed.
Simply put, with a yield,
I can return values from
a function several times,
which is what I'm doing at
each iteration of the word loop.
Finally, I increase my
index by one to move
my sliding window one
word to the right.
So just to recap,
the get _windows function takes
any corpus and the
context size and
returns the context words and
center words for each
successive window.
Here's how to use this function.
I'm using a loop to get
the successive tuples of
context words and center
words into x and y,
and then displaying these words,
you will notice that I'm using
the usual Machine
Learning notation
for features and targets,
as this is what the
context words and
center words are for the
continuous bag of words model.
So if I run the
code on the array,
I am happy because I'm learning,
which I got by
tokenizing the sentence,
I'm happy because I'm learning,
and the contexts
have size of two,
this is the output.
Up next, you'll convert this
sets of words into a set of
vectors as can be consumed by
the continuous bag
of words model.